three testing to see that the machine is working.
This is Tuesday, March the third.
And we're in Bryan in the office of the Chamber of Commerce with Royce Hickman, class of 64.
Correct.
And where was home then?
When I came to school, home was in the process of moving from the Los Angeles area to Alabama.
So my father was a construction engineer.
So you finished high school in Los Angeles?
In Los Angeles.
Graduated from high school in Montobello, California, out on the east side of Los Angeles.
All right.
Then that leads to the first important question.
What led you to come to A&M in the first place?
Why here?
I was born in Bryan.
I had my grandmother, my mother's mother live right across the street from the campus.
Managed an apartment house for 40 plus years there.
Down from where old Blue Post used to be, about two blocks.
Fitzwillies or something like that's the name of the place that's there now.
And I used to come, I lived here until I was about a year probably, or a little less than a year old than me, but I'd come back here and spend summers of, you know, a week or two with my grandparents.
So I was somewhat raised.
Might be a way of saying that.
I mean, we came back for football games.
I'm kind of your typical, you know, raised as an actor.
I don't ever remember not being an Aggie.
Isn't that interesting?
That's a good one.
Yeah, and that's true.
I don't ever remember not being an Aggie.
My dad took some classes here, engineering classes, but he never graduated.
He was a pretty well self-educated man.
He didn't finish eighth grade.
Got his GED and took some courses here from Arkansas and Texas Tech.
A lot of correspondence courses on it.
Made himself an engineer.
So, we moved all of the United States.
I've probably been in 44 of the 50 states at one time or another.
Alright, when you came to begin your freshman year, that was the fall of 50?
Well, that was the fall of 60, wasn't it?
Yeah.
Yeah, let me just give you a quick deal here.
I graduated in 1959 from high school.
And actually, even though I wanted to come to A&M, I just didn't, you know, like a lot of kids, I used to have my everything together.
I played football at Montebello and had been asked to come over and play football for Pasadena City College, which was a two-year school there.
I played one year of football and tore up an ankle and realized I was too small at 150 pounds to be playing with those 265, 275 guys.
And when the year ended, I was in the process of going back for my second year there when my dad was transferred to Dothan, Alabama.
And we had no family in California and he wasn't wild about leaving me out there.
And he gave me a choice of either coming back to
going to Alabama with him, working a semester and going to school there locally, or coming to A&M.
And I said, well, Dan always wanted to go to A&M, you know, let's go.
So, he put me on an airplane and sent me to school here.
Alright, you say on an airplane?
Yeah.
Alright, and so, but did you, you didn't come on an airplane to Bryan College Station?
Yeah, I did.
Really?
Yeah, Trans-Texas Airlines.
Trans-Texas?
Yeah.
Because imagine the comparison we would have with... PC-3s, if you remember those.
Tell me what you brought physically.
What was the quantity of stuff you brought when you arrived?
I brought a suitcase with just some clothes in it.
And, you know, Haskell, I don't remember having anything else with me.
in the way of lamps or any of those things, not coming in a vehicle.
I didn't have that opportunity.
Now, my folks came through a couple of weeks later, maybe I lost track of time, two or three weeks later, they came back on their way to Dauphin, Alabama for his new assignment there.
And I actually owned an old, gosh,
Ford and they drove that here so I was one of the few freshmen that had a car and when they came then they brought some extra things but when I walked on that campus I had a suitcase of clothes and I don't think I really had anything else.
You know I went over and my mother and dad had been friends of Lupo and Evelyn Lupo which was his first wife that died some years ago and we spent
And Lou actually took me over to the registrar's office and got me, because school had already been, at that time, they'd already been going to school a week.
Alright, now how did you get from the, was it Easterwood?
Yeah, my grandmother picked me up.
She picked you up?
Yeah, she lived here.
She lived here, I had some cousins that lived here, and two great aunts, great uncles and their wives, which were my grandmother's brothers.
One of them was Garland Brown that had Brown Allen Oldsmobile Cadillac for years.
And the other one was Frank Brown, Junior, who for years was an electrician on campus.
Came here in the 20s.
Been a member of my family living in this community for 80 years consecutively.
Right now you said you were about a week late.
Yeah.
Okay, tell me about getting settled in on the campus or wherever you lived.
Well, I had a cousin who was a junior in the Corps.
And he, when I came, his name was Glenn Morton.
He was a class of 60.
Gosh, what is that, 62?
And after I was enrolled in class, and all of my hours wouldn't transfer.
I transferred about, I don't know, 24 hours, 20 something hours.
But, you know, he actually talked me into entering the Corps as a freshman and not trying to, you know,
I guess, I didn't even really, even though I'd been semi-raced on this campus, I really didn't understand that part of it.
So I came in as a freshman in the Corps and into his unit.
He went down with me and got me put into his unit and then I moved into, at that time it was dorm 14.
I think that's Moses, if I'm not mistaken, but back then we called it by numbers.
And so I moved into dorm 14 in an outfit that was H1 at the time.
Did it have a nickname?
They called it Hotel Company or something.
The next year, the same outfit's designation was changed to G2, which was Gallant and Bold.
But we never had Dog Company or any of those designations like so many of the others.
Did it have a particular relationship to any branch of the owner?
Yeah, engineers.
It was old B Company engineers.
And virtually everybody was in there was an engineer.
I was a history major when I first started there.
The one year I'd been out in California, I was a liberal arts major.
I changed to history.
And I was about the only non-engineer in that outfit.
And these guys were struggling with calculus and all these other courses.
And I really couldn't relate to them because I wasn't taking anything like that.
And gosh, they were flunking out right and left.
We had about close to, seemed like close to 50 freshmen that first semester and I think there were about 19 come back the second semester.
I mean we lost a ton of freshmen.
Plus the outfit was, they were extremely hard on freshmen.
They were easy on sophomores, but boy, the freshman year was different.
Tell me about what it was like to be a freshman then in terms of core life and hazing and whatever other words we might want to use.
You know, it's funny because as much as I love this school and as much as I've given back to it really so gladly and so thrilled to have the opportunity to give back and blessed for that.
I can remember driving down Highway 6 on Gray, on Gray, you know, Gray Avenue and saying, gosh, I hate this place, you know, because the first semester was really tough.
I went back home and talked about transferring to Auburn University with my folks living in Alabama.
And my dad said, you know, he wouldn't hear of it.
He said, you're going to finish your first year out and then we'll talk.
And I'll come back to the first part of that year, but I came back that second semester with a different attitude.
And it's really interesting.
I really love my second semester of my freshman year because I came looking for the good things.
I think the first semester you were always looking for that sophomore that was going to get on you.
You know, you were almost anticipating it.
Life as a freshman was getting up in the morning and
a lot of times getting your, being the whistle jock, getting your outfit up.
What time?
Gosh, you know, I don't remember, about 6.30 is what I recall.
And we'd fall out for a formation and march to chow.
We ate in Sebesa Hall.
And, you know, you'd always have to, you either ironed your uniform the night before you got up early, set your alarm, got up and ironed your uniform.
You'd stay in inspection.
Every time you had a formation, you'd stay in inspection.
And the sophomores had a certain amount of time to,
yell at you about your grass being dirty or your gig line crooked or your shirt wrinkled or, you know, did you sleep in your uniform?
Another line, I had kind of a heavy beard and it was tough to use an electric razor.
Anytime I'd use one by noon or early on, they'd say, did you shave this morning, Fish Eggman?
Yes, sir.
Next time, use a blade.
You know, I mean, that was always the lines that you weren't really, weren't really shaving.
And those guys, you know, did you sleep in your uniform last night?
That was the standard line for
if your uniform was wrinkled.
And, I mean, it'd be nothing for them to have you down on the ground doing push-ups or things like that.
I'd say anything that went on in that regard was more in the open would be more push-ups or running.
They'd run you some.
We didn't run near like they run today in units, but we stole our CO's footlocker, which is kind of a tradition, you know.
Tell me about that.
Well... When and how?
We stole it in the fall and we got a passkey somehow and when he was at formation eating, we snuck back a couple of my fish buddies, I wasn't one of them, but they snuck back into his room and just opened it up with a passkey and got his footlocker and then he took us out and ran us.
He was a cross country.
Did he know who had done it?
Or was he just guessing?
No, he was a pretty good guess at the fish class that stole his footlocker.
So he ran us.
He was an intramural cross country champion and he just said, well I need to get in shape anyway, let's go run guys.
And I had played football and I was in reasonably good shape.
Plus I worked summers in construction work, labor work, and at that time I was in
much better shape than I'm in now.
And gosh I was having to try to catch up with the guys in the front to get them to kind of run slower.
I mean it wasn't, you know this was the old freshman stick together bit because some of our fish buddies were dragging along the road throwing up and dying you know and some of these guys were out there trying to keep up with this guy and I said you know here the idea is we need to be trying to run as a class and run as slow as the slowest one can go.
But the CO caught me doing that, and he wasn't too thrilled that I was trying to slow everybody down.
But he ran us until we finally told him he could have his footlocker back, and he quit running us, but then we didn't give it back to him until we had a Christmas party, an outfit Christmas party.
So you had it about how long?
Oh gosh, we probably had it six to eight weeks.
And y'all didn't do anything to it except hide?
No.
Where did you hide it?
You know, I don't remember.
I honestly don't remember where we had that thing off campus.
You know, a lot of times when we'd hide anything or do that, my grandmother's apartment building was across the street, and that's where I parked my car.
So things would get hidden over there sometime, but I don't remember, I don't think I had that footlocker.
In the freshman haze, let's call it, was there any physical punishment applied by sophomores or others?
Yeah.
When and how often?
Well, the big thing as far as like a paddle or anything was, you know, they would beat your handle off, which you know, your handle was fish.
And if a sophomore wanted to drop handles with you, sometimes that's the method they would use to drop handles with you.
They'd give you a whack.
And then from then on, if you were not around juniors or seniors, you could call them Bob or George or whatever.
And because they'd ask you what your first name was and it was always Fish.
And you know, every once in a while you'd think they were going to drop handles with you and you'd say, well it's Royce, and they pretty quickly informed you that was not correct.
Most of the physical hazing that we went through was, from my standpoint, was push-ups.
I had a friend, a guy that I could develop a friendship with and I regret, I could go back and look at my hand, but I don't recall his name.
He was in the room right next to me and we just kind of hit it off.
And he, I don't know, he upset an upperclassman one time and so he spent the weekend signing in on his door.
sheet up there and he had to every hour on the hour he had to sign in and whenever he signed in he had to be in a different uniform and so you know it'd be class A with rain gear or class B or class you know C and with a jacket and you could change it up more than you think you could but whenever he'd he'd always have his door open
So he would have to actually knock on the door and ask permission to come in the room to sign once he got in that room.
The one thing I remember he telling me about that I thought was really stupid is they would have him running in a circle around, we used to have single light bulbs in those rooms and he had a broom and he would hold that broom up and run around in circles around that light bulb while they had another broom trying to trip him.
A lot of the things that we thought we were being hazed for, and I think that's when I really, that really helped me.
My second semester, all of a sudden I realized that we weren't really hazing.
I used to, at one stage, I remember considering it hazing, I had to speak to everybody.
But what a better world we'd live in if everybody spoke to everybody.
And, you know, we used to consider it a hassle to have to whip out to people.
You know, we'd pass a sophomore that we knew, and we'd say, howdy, Mr. Jones, sir.
And then we'd have to introduce ourselves to his three sophomore buddies that were there with him.
Well, Kim, what a great world.
Everybody introduced themselves to each other and things like that.
My second semester, I really accepted that that was all good.
My first semester, I probably lived in, you know, I can remember walking across the street to avoid meeting people or seeing a sophomore, I should know his name, and I didn't.
I remember one time, embarrassed to say, walking across the street to avoid saluting an officer.
And I don't know why, but that's the mentality I was in at that time, avoidance, so to speak.
And a real statement that I made to myself was, I was walking down the street that second semester, and there was a military officer walking on the other side of the street.
I walked across the street so I could salute him, and then walked back across the street.
And it's funny, I remember that.
But that, as much as anything, was a statement to myself, I guess, that, you know, that this is different and this is all, yeah, yeah, the heart.
But, and to be honest with my second semester, I don't remember being very difficult.
Our first semester was a pretty difficult lot of, I mean, just sophomores in your face yelling at you all the time.
And again, you know, it's verbal, I wouldn't call it,
I wouldn't call it abuse or anything, but it was a form of hazing.
You got to the point you're afraid to do anything because they'd be all over you.
That's their job to shape the freshman up.
That's what they always were, had that responsibility.
Was your official lady a special person?
His name, I still see him.
I saw him this year at a mini reunion.
His name was Chris Anthone.
Chris was from Houston.
and Chris was an engineering major that ended up changing to business after a semester or two and Chris was a good guy.
We didn't have an awful lot in common but we got along well.
I changed roommates after my first year and it wasn't so much because I didn't care for Chris as much as I developed a real strong relationship with a guy from San Antonio by the name of Bill Parker and part of the relationship with Bill that
made it even stronger was he tried to get me to go to San Antonio on a free weekend.
We had a, you have a free weekend, back then we drilled on Saturday mornings, so if you went anywhere it was noon Saturday and you had to be back, I think we had to be back around 6 Sunday evening, so your weekends were really short.
And we had a free weekend which meant we had no drill and you could leave Friday whenever class was over.
And he wanted me to go to San Antonio with him, well my folks live in Alabama so I couldn't go there.
And I had relatives here.
I was just going to stay here and enjoy life, so to speak.
And he could not stand the thought of me being in the dorm that was basically him because everybody left on those weekends.
And he bugged me so much, I finally said, if you get me a date with a good-looking girl with a great personality, I'll go to San Antonio with you.
So he called his girlfriend in San Antonio, and he called me back like the Thursday before the Friday we were leaving.
He called and said, I've got you a date.
And that's her picture right over there.
So it worked.
Been married 35 years.
Love at first sight.
And so Bill and I... And you're a freshman at that point?
I was a freshman, uh-huh.
And Bill, you know, I mean, that kind of seemed in a relationship if a guy introduces you to a special lady, you know.
But so my next year I ran with Bill.
And then my junior year I ran with Mary.
We married them my sophomore year and spent two years married on campus.
Anyway, you were asking about my freshman, my fish old lady.
Chris was a guy that was kind of clumsy at times.
Don't put that in a book.
I'm trying to describe that.
Chris was one of, I'll tell you, Chris worked hard at being an Aggie.
And it didn't come naturally for him.
And I remember he was a whistle jock one morning.
And Chris got up like
Gosh almighty, you know, he's supposed to start blowing the whistle at, say, 6.30, whatever the hours were then.
And he probably got up about 5.
And he's driving me crazy because he's got the lights on and he's all, and then you had to go out there and recite the menu.
So he's practicing reciting the menu.
He's got his uniform iron, he irons his uniform, got it spiffy, looking great, and he's waking me up to say, listen, see if I got the menu right, and I'm getting, you know, he's reading the menu, yes, Chris, you got it down pat.
Well, Chris, he's got it all ready, okay, so he sits down for just a minute, okay, falls asleep.
So, all of a sudden, we're awakened by this sophomore, junior,
bursting into our room.
Fish anthem, aren't you the whistle jock?
Yes, sir.
Well, where are you?
Well, I'm waiting to get first call.
He said, well, first call was 10 minutes ago.
You better get us out.
He goes out and gets the first call.
Then within just minutes he's out giving second call and then within minutes he's giving third call.
And then all the sophomores are griping at him and they're in his face because he didn't give them enough time to get ready.
But that's typical story of Chris working so hard at it.
And so Chris took a lot of verbal abuse and he was not in the best physical condition in the world.
I'm not saying he was in bad shape.
So, like, I mean, I used to do 60 push-ups a night every night falling to bed.
And whenever our classmen asked me to do one, I'd start straining at 20 like it was killing me.
But Chris, you know, he'd really be straining at 15 push-ups maybe.
But Chris stuck it out.
And I always respect him for that.
I mean, because a lot of guys that went through less quit.
And Chris just refused to quit.
All right.
Tucked up.
Let's see, you ate in Cebisa.
I did.
Alright, describe, as a freshman, describe a chow hall day.
Well, we ate there three times a day, and every time it was with a formation, even for lunch, we'd meet and march to chow, and you'd march in and you had a signed seat on most of the days.
Weekends you'd have open seating, because the freshmen would always try to get together and get a table of only freshmen for the weekends.
But you'd always have an upperclassman there, and you would basically sit at attention, and you would eat pretty much like a square meal.
Although that's not as bad as it may sound to me.
I never had a real problem with that.
But we had, you know, the big deal was upperclassmen were served first, and you couldn't shortstop an upperclassman.
That was a big deal.
If you shortstopped an upperclassman, you'd get rammed, or you'd be asked to visit their hole.
after chow for some explanation about why that isn't good, but you'd have to make sure your upperclassmen were serving.
Of course, you called all the food head names.
Yeah, share those.
Gosh, Sandan was salt and pepper, and Spuds was potatoes, I believe, and Bullneck was meat.
And when you wanted something, you'd say, shoot the bull neck, please, meaning pass the bull neck, please, and shoot the... What was bread?
Bread was gun wadding?
What was that?
No, deal.
Deal, yeah.
And you'd say deal one when you wanted bread.
That's right.
Milk.
Milk was cow.
Butter.
Grease, was it?
I don't remember.
Tea.
I don't know if I remember T. Did coffee have a nickname?
Everything had a nickname.
And some of them probably not as nice as others.
Did you ever have any when you went home on a vacation?
Did you ever forget?
Yeah.
And get in trouble?
Well, no, because I never used any of the bad, I can't remember ever using any of the bad terms.
You know, one of them that was kind of gross was after birth, which was kind of tomatoes and squash or something.
I forgot what would that dish be.
Oh, God.
I wish I could think of more.
The artillery was beans.
Shoot the artillery placement.
But, I mean, you'd go home and you'd be sitting there, especially if you were with another, you know, if you were, maybe I'd go to Chris's home in Houston and, you know, you'd be sitting there next to him and say, shoot the, you know, shoot the.
Did y'all, when you could, did y'all play any games at mealtimes?
Boy, there weren't a lot of opportunities for that.
We would, you know, there was a lot of eye contact things or the other thing you'd do is if you didn't have, like at noon, if you didn't have a one o'clock class, you'd kind of stall out the upperclassmen and then you could get a class, a table just a freshman.
And the, and that used to be kind of nice.
They had a day, like a fish day, it seemed like they called it, and this was April Fool's Day, if I recall correctly, and that's where the sophomore and freshman roles reversed, and the freshmen always looked forward to that.
They thought that was great, but there's two things that they didn't realize, and the first one was that the next day they were back to being a fish again, and the second thing is that the sophomores knew that they were going to be back to being a fish again, so they didn't
They didn't really have any, what do you call it, they didn't have any leverage over us.
But I can remember, you know, you'd intentionally shortstop them on this fish day as a sophomore.
I don't remember my fish day as much as a freshman, sophomore, I have very clear memories of that.
But we would intentionally shortstop them and we would, we would, you know, they would speak to us
We'd go on eating and they'd get after us.
And I remember this one guy, this sounds terrible, I hate for you to put this in a book.
This guy, the guy told me to, this freshman had told me to eat under the table.
So I had to get down under the table and eat now.
I don't ever remember that happening any time other than that one day.
Literally sitting?
Literally sit me down underneath the table.
they're all sitting there, and I'm sitting underneath the table eating, and we had mashed potatoes that day.
I just, I rub mashed potatoes in all their shoelaces.
Then when that was discussed.
I can still remember, well, you know, the funny thing is when I first started doing it, none of them knew I was doing it, and it's no fun, you know, because you're doing this and nobody realizes it's so
Then I had to start rubbing on their shoes hard, and they realized what I was doing, so they started backing out, you know, making their chairs out, and it was slagged.
I could still hear that noise on that in Sabisa whenever we'd slide those chairs out there because it was, you know, noisy.
But they'd back up and look at their shoes, and so then they made me eat back up on top, you know, at the regular space on the table.
There wasn't anything they could do.
That was the whole thing.
It was really a sophomore day.
They just called it a fish day.
Then we stacked their rooms.
I remember doing that.
Describe stacking the rooms.
You basically would move everything to the center of the room.
You'd usually start with a desk maybe.
there were two desks to a room you'd just put those in the center of the room and then you would just start taking everything and stacking it on top of that and make a big pile.
You'd take their mattresses off their bed with their their sheets and blankets and things and put that on there.
You'd take their clothes out of their closet and stack it up there.
We didn't really or at least I didn't wad anything up necessarily.
I mean
Not even necessarily, we tried to at least keep their uniforms from being messed up, but we just laid all that stuff in the center of the room.
So when you walked in, open your door, there was everything in your room, just in one nice stack in the middle of the room.
So you didn't have, that wasn't part of drowned out?
No, I was trying to think about drowned outs.
We've had some of those.
And you didn't wad up paper and fill the room with paper?
No.
No, I didn't do any of that.
I'll tell you, we babo-bombed, as sophomores, we babo-bombed our first sergeant.
Describe your variety of babo-bombs.
And this is kind of an interesting deal.
He kind of, you know, at least the sophomores felt like he was favoring the freshmen over the sophomores and felt like we were getting a bad rap.
We got in his room and unlocked his windows.
And about 2 o'clock in the morning, 2.30 in the morning sometime, they set a babo bomb.
And babo bomb, you'd take a babo, a can of babo, and you'd cut the top of it off and empty it out and put like an M80 firecracker in the bottom of it.
And you'd fill it back up.
And sometimes we'd fill that thing up with top and powder type stuff.
And in this case, they laid that Babbo bomb on the, those rooms had heat, what do you call those things?
Heat elements, you know what?
Right here.
Yeah.
They had those over by the window.
And so what they did is they came in in the night and slipped that window up and set that Babbo bomb in actually directional.
A lot of times they'd sit on the floor in the middle of the room
They go off and they kind of explode up like fireworks.
Well, in this case, they set that babble bomb on its side, pointing at his room.
So they never entered his room.
And they lit the firecracker.
And, of course, then you take off and get back to your room.
I mean, I've seen them.